So now we're gonna do backoff-and-retry.
This is a favorite question of Facebook
interviews and Google interviews.
So if that's something
that you're interested in,
this will actually be a very
useful section for you.
So let's take the DDoS kinda idea
that I was talking about earlier and
expand upon that.
What happens if your request fails?
I'm actually not sure what would
happen here at the moment.
But let's try, let's just say
that here and get new messages.
You don't have to do this.
We're just gonna have some fun here for
just a second.
We're gonna say res.status 500 and
just comment that out.
So this will make our request
actually fail or at least it should
And a network here,
I think this actually just ends.
Yeah, so it's probably not even scheduling
stuff to happen in the future, so
it depends on how your code is written.
You can see here that if
we have one failed request,
our entire thing just comes
to a grinding to a halt.
That's not ideal, right?
If you're writing this chat app, and
if there's just one blip, right?
Let's say that they move
from one Wi-Fi to another,
frequently you'll drop a lot of requests
when you change networks, right?
You don't want your entire app to crash
just cuz they changed Wi-Fi networks on
accident.
Or the connection between the L3 and
Verizon interconnects happens to have
a blip and that causes it to go down,
or you fail over from one
region of AWS to another.
These are tons of reasons where it's not
really your app's fault that you failed
but you got a 500 requests.
What do you do then?
Well, there's quite a few strategies.
This one's bad which is just quit,
[LAUGH] Don't do that.
The another strategy could
be immediately try again.
And that's one thing you'll see
frequently is, okay, my request failed,
I'm gonna just try again immediately.
The problem with that is what happens,
if your server has actually
just gone down, right?
This was the problem like we had the Obama
AMA, when I was working at Reddit is we
just had so many people requesting
stuff that we basically DDoS ourself.
And so
our server actually went down during that.
If you immediately start requesting again,
and then it fails,
then the request again and then again,
basically you're gonna have all of your
users making 1000 requests a second.
And you're definitely gonna
crash your servers, right?
So that strategy is not great.
So we're gonna talk about two things here.
One is called backoff and
one's called retry.
We just talked about retry
which is try again, right?
Which is more we're not doing here.
All right, so I have a 500 request,
I'm gonna retry again.
Let's say that one 500 as well and
then I'm gonna try again, but
I'm gonna try again at twice the interval,
right?
So if it was zero seconds and
I'll try again at three seconds,
and then I'll try again six seconds after
that, and then 12 seconds after that.
Then 24 seconds after that, right?
And then you, you keep backing off until
eventually you're making it requests like
every two minutes or something like
that or until the service comes back.
So I don't know,
if you all use Gmail, right?
But if you look at Gmail and
it'll say like, hey, you're offline.
I'm gonna try again in 25 seconds, and
then it'll be like two minutes, and
there'll be like five minutes.
That's exactly what's happening there.
They're trying not to overwhelm their
servers, and they're just making it so
that you retry like every 30 seconds
to a minute or something like that.
So that's called backoff,
and in particular,
what I was talking about is
called exponential backoff.
And it's just designed with
the idea in mind is like all right,
we're gonna try again immediately
because maybe there was a blip.
Then we gonna try again in three seconds
cuz maybe, we're able to recover quickly.
And then eventually it's like okay,
something is definitely wrong.
If I make three requests in a row and
they all 500 something is probably wrong.
So I'm gonna start taking longer and
longer in between my re-request to give my
server just an opportunity to,
maybe they need to come back up,
maybe they need to shed some load,
something like that.
And that's what the backoff strategy is.
Specifically the exponential backoff.
You can also do linear backoff, which is
like add 10 seconds every single time, so
you try 10 seconds, then 20 seconds, then
30, then 40, then 50, so on and so forth.
So and the strategy that you're gonna
choose is just gonna be based on
what your app is.
If our chat app goes down and they're not
able to reconnect within 30 to 45 seconds,
they're probably just gonna abandon,
right?
And that's probably not a bad choice for
them either.
We don't want them to sit there waiting
for an app just getting mad at our page.
So with something like that, you probably
want to make a bunch of requests,
all upfront, so like two seconds,
four seconds, eight seconds.
And then after that you just say,
all right,
it's you probably should
just come back later, right?
As opposed to something like,
maybe you're writing like a script
to try and get concert tickets.
That, when you probably wanna try a bunch
all at front because maybe you'll have
your opportunity to get
some concert tickets.
Or maybe it's something like I don't know,
a spreadsheet that they're trying to look
at that even if it takes them two
minutes to get to that spreadsheet,
they're still gonna wait for
that because they need it, right?
In which case you probably wanna have a
pretty generous backoff because the people
will wait and they'll be fine, I don't
know if they'll be fine with it, but
they will wait.
>> Is there an upper limit to how much
the longest backoff time should be?
>> Certainly nothing written in stone in
terms of a longest time
that a user should wait.
It's just gonna basically
conform to your product strategy
which is kinda what I
was talking about there.
Do you anticipate users waiting for your
service to come back like Gmail, right?
When my Gmail is down,
I probably will sit there and
wait until my Gmail comes back, right?
So maybe at that point, maybe that's like
two minutes, like try every two minutes or
something like that,
which is probably long enough.
One request of 120 seconds, it's probably
not gonna bring your server down.
So, that would kinda be my upper
limit of expecting my user to wait.
If I don't expect them to wait like a chat
service, I'd probably say no, right?
It's fine,
make a request every 10 minutes,
that's fine because they're
probably not gonna wait.
So, anyway, it's a product question, it's
not a technical question, which is fine.
It's a good question.
Do you have another question?
>> Yeah,
it's like the Gmail button has a retry,
>> Yep.
>> To manually request,
do you recommend that?
>> Sure, so the question is like,
let's say I went down here and
should I pop up like a Retry
button right there in the middle?
Again, that's gonna be a product question,
so
that button if you clicked on
it rather than wait two minutes,
it would allow the user to say, okay, let
me try again right now I think it's back.
Here's the danger is that when
your user clicks a button and
it doesn't do anything,
they're gonna click it again, and again.
And you're gonna allow the user
to literally manually DDoS here.
So in some cases, it's probably okay.
If you're trying to recover and
all your users are spamming you,
you didn't win, right?
You lost that interaction.
So if I was gonna do that and I felt
like that was a good product choice,
I would have them click it,
and then I would probably have
a backoff clicking it as well, right?
So if they clicked and it didn't work,
I'd make them wait two seconds before
I would show it to them again.
And then four seconds before I
showed it to them again, right?
Or something like that, just so the user
is not able to spam you as well, right?
Because they will.
And it's not a mean thing, right?
We're just wired on the Internet
to expect everything instantly.
I hate waiting for Gmail to come back, and
I definitely spam that button despite
the fact I know precisely what it does.
I also don't care.
It's Google's problem, not mine.
But that's something you could do here.
You could totally go make a retry button.
That'd be a good exercise
to do after this.